
Usage
================================================================================

Once installed, Maestro is available both as a library through the
``maestro`` package and as an executable. To run Maestro, simply execute
``maestro``. Note that if you didn't install Maestro system-wide, you can
still run it with the same commands as long as your ``PYTHONPATH``
contains the path to your ``maestro-ng`` repository clone and using
``python -m maestro ...``.

.. code::

  $ maestro -h
  usage: maestro [-h] [-f FILE] [-v]
                 {status,pull,start,stop,restart,logs,deptree} ...

  Maestro, Docker container orchestrator.

  positional arguments:
    {status,pull,start,stop,restart,logs,deptree}
      status              display container status
      pull                pull images from repository
      start               start services and containers
      stop                stop services and containers
      kill                kill services and containers
      restart             restart services and containers
      logs                show logs from a container
      deptree             show the dependency tree
      complete            shell auto-completion helper

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -f FILE, --file FILE  read environment description from FILE (use - for
                          stdin, defaults to ./maestro.yaml)
    -v, --version         show program version and exit

You can then get help on each individual command with:

.. code::

  $ maestro start -h
  usage: maestro start [-h] [-c LIMIT] [-d] [-i] [-r] [thing [thing ...]]

  Start services and containers

  positional arguments:
    thing                 container(s) or service(s) to display

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help            show this help message and exit
    -c LIMIT, --concurrency LIMIT
                          limit how many containers can be acted on at the same
                          time to LIMIT
    -d, --with-dependencies
                          include dependencies
    -i, --ignore-dependencies
                          ignore dependency order
    -r, --refresh-images  force refresh of container images from registry

By default, Maestro will read the environment description configuration
from the ``maestro.yaml`` file in the current directory. You can
override this with the ``-f`` flag to specify the path to the
environment configuration file. Additionally, you can use ``-`` to read
the configuration from ``stdin``. The following commands are identical:

.. code::

  $ maestro status
  $ maestro -f maestro.yaml status
  $ maestro -f - status < maestro.yaml

The first positional argument is a command you want Maestro to execute.
The available commands are ``status``, ``start``, ``stop``, ``restart``,
``logs`` and ``deptree``. They should all be self-explanatory.

Most commands operate on one or more "things", which can be services or
instances, by name. When passing service names, Maestro will
automatically expand those to their corresponding list of instances. The
``logs`` command is the only one that operates on strictly one container
instance.

Impact of defined dependencies on orchestration order
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

One of the main features of Maestro is its understand of dependencies
between services. When Maestro carries out an orchestration action,
dependencies are always considered unless the ``-i |
--ignore-dependencies`` flag is passed.

**But Maestro will only respect the dependencies to other services and
containers that the current orchestration action includes.** If you want
Maestro to automatically include the dependencies of the services or
containers you want to act on in the orchestration that will be carried
out, you must pass the ``-d | --with-dependencies`` flag!

For example, assuming we have two services, ZooKeeper (``zookeeper``) and
Kafka (``kafka``), and that Kafka depends on ZooKeeper:

.. code::

  # Starts Kafka and only Kafka:
  $ maestro start kafka

  # Starts ZooKeeper, then Kafka:
  $ maestro start -d kafka
  # Which is equivalent to:
  $ maestro start kafka zookeeper

  # Starts ZooKeeper and Kafka at the same time (includes dependencies but
  # ignores dependency order constraints):
  $ maestro start -d -i kafka
